Title: Maintenance of wireless microphone
Id: 974
Legacy Id: 1003

Question:
I was surprised to find a maintenance section dealing with the general upkeep, cleaning and gain control settings (both on the MARCAD receiver and the mic) to optimize performance! I own a SHURE wireless SM58 and have used pure alcohol on the connectors to clean them, as well as adjusted the contacts to make better ...... well ... contact.


I was told by a technician that this was ok, but, I wanted to come to the source to make sure this was correct. I must admit that I was shocked that no section existed in your site. I have used your products exclusively for my vocal (singing) needs and have always been pleased at the way your mics present my talent and I plan to always use them live!


But, I have lost my mic's gain control device and need to know where in my area I can get a new one, and I need to know how the gain control settings (both on the mic and the receiver combined) affect my overall sound and how to set them for the best mic/receiver performance.


1) If the gain is too high on the receiver will it hurt the mic and visa versa?

2) How can I get more of a hardline mic sound out of my wireless? The corded mics always seem to sound better at lower gain and volume levels.


Answer:

	There isnt any maintenance that should be needed on Shure wireless contacts. If you do wish to clean the contacts, a quality electronics contact cleaner would be better. Contact cleaner can be purchased at Radio Shack as well as other electronic supply stores.
	
	For the replacement part that you mention, please contact the Shure Parts Department at 800-516-2525.
	
	Instructions on setting the transmitter gain and receiver volume control are in the User Guides of each system.
	
	Answers to your questions:
	1) No, the microphone or receiver will not get damaged.
	2) Properly adjusting the gain on the transmitter (as described in the User Guide) will provide better signal at lower volume levels.

