Title: Mic to record piano practice
Id: 472
Legacy Id: 482

Question:
Please suggest a microphone suitable for home use to record my daughter (an ARCT student) practicing piano. The microphone will be used with either a Nakamichi cassette deck or an Akai reel to reel tape deck, both with unbalanced mic inputs.


The mic input of the Nakamichi 700 is 600 ohm, 0.5mV, 1/4 in. 2 conductor female phone jack with signal at tip and grounded shank.


The mic input of the Akai GX-260D is 4700 ohm, 0.3mV, 1/4 in. 2 conductor female phone jack with signal at tip and grounded shank.


Answer:

	2. We suggest you consider the models: 849, BG4.1, or SM94.
	
	3. More technical information is required on the tape recorder inputs to make certain the microphone will operate properly. Please read the following:
	
	What specifications determine if a Shure microphone will properly
	operate with your camcorder or your tape recorder or your radio or your
	computer sound card or your anything!
	
	Shure is often asked Will microphone model X work with my ...? While
	we would love to have the microphone input specifications of each and
	every device in the world that needs a microphone, it is an impossible
	task. So for us to help you select the proper microphone, we need you
	to provide the following three vital specifications for the microphone
	input of your device. Typically, these specifications will be provided
	in the Owners Manual for your device or you may have to call the
	manufacturer of the device.
	
	VITAL MICROPHONE INPUT SPECIFICATION #1
	Typically called Input Sensitivity or Nominal Input Level, this
	specification indicates how large of a signal the microphone must supply
	to satisfy the microphone input of your device. This specification
	might be given in millivolts (mV), or volts (V), or in a minus dB form
	(-dBV, -dBm, -dBu, -dBs).
	In the Shure product line, there is a wide variation of signal levels
	available depending on the microphone model. If you select a microphone
	whose signal level is too low for your device, the audio will be noisy
	and low in level. If you select a microphone whose signal level is too
	great for your device, the audio will be distorted and unintelligible.
	Proper matching of the microphones signal level to your devices
	required input level is imperative.
	
	VITAL MICROPHONE INPUT SPECIFICATION #2
	Typically called Input Impedance or Actual Input Impedance, this
	specification is important as it will determine the proper impedance
	range of the chosen microphone. This specification will be given in
	ohms, which is abbreviated .. Contrary to popular audio mythology, the
	impedance of a microphone does not need to match the input impedance of
	your device.
	In the Shure product line, there are multiple impedances available
	depending on the microphone model. If you select a microphone whose
	impedance is lower than or equal to your devices input impedance, the
	microphone will work if it provides the proper signal level (see #1
	above). If you select a microphone whose impedance is greater than your
	devices input impedance, the microphone will not deliver its full
	signal level to your device and the audio will be noisy and low in
	level.
	
	VITAL MICROPHONE INPUT SPECIFICATION #3
	This final specification is the type of microphone input connector on
	your device, how many connection points are in the connector, and what
	is the function of each connection point. This specification will be
	the name of the connector, such as: XLR female, 3.5mm mini-phone plug,
	TRS 1/4 female phone jack, screw terminals, TINI QG connector. Each of
	these has at least two connection points and most have three (or more)
	connection points. It is imperative that the function of each
	connection point be known so that the proper microphone wiring can be
	determined.
	In the Shure product line, there are many wiring schemes available
	depending on the microphone model. If the microphone connections are
	not properly matched to your devices input connector, there may be no
	audio, or funny sounding audio, or the microphone might be damaged if
	there is an unknown voltage appearing on your devices connection
	points.
	
	CONCLUSION
	As you can see, there are many variables that affect whether a
	particular microphone will work with your device. Shure will be happy
	to assist in your microphone selection, but to do the job correctly, we
	need you to provide the pieces of this technical puzzle that Shure does
	not have: the audio input specifications of your device.
	
	At 12/04/2000 07:27 AM we wrote -
	
	1. The web site for Canada is: www.sfm.ca
	
	2. The mics suggested (849, BG4.1, or SM94) will work fine with either tape deck. You will require a mic cable wired as follows:
	
	* Mic XLR connector pin 1 to cable shield, then to 1/4  male plug sleeve.
	* Mic XLR connector pin 2 to cable inner conductor, then to 1/4  male plug tip.
	* Mic XLR connector pin 3 to cable shield, then to 1/4  male plug sleeve.
	
	As the mic output will be unbalanced, we suggest the mic cable be less than 25 feet in length.

