Title: Ebay sellers and counterfeit products
Id: 3259
Legacy Id: 3413

Question:
Does Shure authorize sellers to sell on Ebay? I saw earphones for less than $20 with the Shure name on them. 

Answer:

	Authorized Shure Dealers agree not to auction or resell Shure products on ebay or any other auction website.
	
	We cannot guarantee that an item found on an auction website is a genuine Shure product, or that it is in fact a new unit with all accessories and full factory warranty.
	
	Shure has received many complaints from consumers who have purchased our products through illegitimate online resellers and/or auction sites. These include but are not limited to:
	
	-- The seller substitutes a different Shure model than the one ordered which may be a different color or include different accessories.
	-- The seller ships a unit that has been opened and used.
	-- The seller offers an item that is not a Shure product at all. One auction offered Shure Metal Inner Earphones*Refund Guaranty which turned out to be a pair of inexpensive earbuds on which the Shure logo had been added electronically.
	-- The seller does not offer any option for a refund if the buyer is not satisfied for some reason. In such cases the seller will often tell the buyer that Shure will issue a refund directly.Shure does not issue refunds for products purchased from a reseller; only the reseller can refund your money. Shure has no business relationship with an unauthorized reseller, so we are unable to intervene on your behalf in the event that your transaction is unsatisfactory.
	
	We encourage consumers to be especially vigilant when purchasing Shure products online. Be certain that you know exactly what it is that you are buying, what the terms of sale are, and what the sellers return policy is. Compare the sellers product photographs to those on Shures website. Please visit the Where To Buy section on Shures website for a list of authorized online resellers.
	
	The attached pictures are NOT Shure products.

