Title: Theater Audio - Sweat / Moisture Protection for Lav / Body  Microphones
Id: 3929
Legacy Id: 4178

Question:
How do professional theaters protect body mics from sweat and moisture?


Answer:

	These methods were provided by James Savage, head of audio for the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
	
	Moleskin wrap:
	
	Wrap a layer of moleskin around the microphone body; be certain to not cover acoustical openings on the microphone. The moleskin will absorb moisture.  The moleskin must be replaced on a regular basis as it will become saturated.
	
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moleskin
	
	Moleskin is sold with an adhesive backing for medical use. The manufacturer is CURAD.
	
	Miniature rubber "O" ring:
	
	A miniature microphone is often positioned on the head, grill facing downward toward the mouth, cable running upward over the head.  Place an "O"ring on the microphone body to act as a "drip off point."  Sweat will travel down the cable, onto the microphone body, and drip off the "O" ring.  The cable can be secured to the actor's hair, or to a wig, using toupee clips. 
	
	Toupee clips are sold by wig supply companies: http://www.headcovers.com/toupee-clips-medium/
	
	"Socking" a miniature microphone:

	
	Purchase nylon panty hose of a color that will match the actor's skin or costume.
	
	Cut the panty hose to create large squares of nylon.
	
	Create a square wooden frame, then stretch the nylon fabric on the frame and fasten it using staples.
	
	Spray the stretched nylon with 3M Scotch-Gard Fabric Protector- available at a hardware store.
	
	Once dry, remove the nylon from the wooden frame.  Cut into small squares that are large enough to cover the body mic.
	
	Place the nylon square over the body mic.  The nylon should not be pulled taut, but should form-fit to the mic's outline.
	
	Keep the nylon in place by sewing the fabric square together near/around the mic cable.
	
	As the nylon pores fill up with sweat and moisture, the high frequency response of the mic will deteriorate.  Replace the nylon square with a new one when the mic sounds "dull."
	
	

