Title: P3R vs. P3RA
Id: 4877
Legacy Id: 6135

Question:
Please compare the PSM300 P3R to the P3RA.


Answer:

	The P3R is a wireless stereo bodypack receiver for use with the PSM300 Personal Monitor System. With 24-bit digital audio clarity, the P3R offers reliable wireless freedom that covers every corner of the stage. Simply connect a set of earphones and adjust the controls to create a wireless personal mix. Patented Audio Reference Companding ensures the clearest sound, with ultra-low noise and no artifacts. Use MixMode technology to customize the mono blend from two channels of audio, or select stereo mode and adjust the left/right balance as desired. One-touch frequency scan and automatic frequency selection enables quick setup and connection to a P3T transmitter via IR sync.

	
		Slim, lightweight, durable form factor
	
		Frequency scan and IR sync quickly finds and assigns a clean channel
	
		MixMode technology enables adjustment of two independent monitoring mix levels
	
		Stereo mode enables adjustment of left/right balance
	
		Easy to adjust volume knob and mix control
	
		2 AA batteries provide up to 6 hours of continuous operation
	
		Power save mode preserves battery life when earphones are not connected
	
		Power and battery status LED
	
		Does not remember MixMode setting when power cycled



	The P3RA is a wireless stereo bodypack receiver for use with the PSM300 Personal Monitor System. With detailed 24-bit digital audio and reliable wireless performance, the P3RA bodypack delivers professional personal monitoring to any corner of the stage. Patented Audio Reference Companding ensures the clearest sound, with ultra-low noise and no artifacts. Find a wireless channel easily, using the scan function to automatically select the cleanest frequency available from a wide tuning bandwidth. Adjust the volume and use MixMode technology or stereo mode to create a personal mix from two channels of audio. EQ and volume limiting further individualize the sound via the high-contrast LCD menu. With a compact and rugged aluminum body, the P3RA ensures a long lifetime of use and easily clips onto a belt or guitar strap. Two standard AA batteries provide up to 6 hours of continuous use. The optional SB900 rechargeable battery (sold separately) extends runtime and allows easy in-unit charging.

	
		Rugged, all-metal construction
	
		High-contrast LCD screen with menu-based navigation
	
		2-band shelving EQ with high and low boost
	
		Volume limiter sets the maximum gain level range for the volume knob
	
		MixMode technology enables adjustment of two independent monitoring mix levels
	
		Stereo mode enables adjustment of left/right balance
	
		Frequency scan and IR sync quickly finds and assigns a clean channel
	
		2 AA batteries provide up to 6 hours of continuous use
	
		Optional Shure SB900 lithium-ion rechargeable battery provides extended runtime
	
		Power and battery status LED
	
		5-segment battery life meter
	
		Power save mode preserves battery life when earphones are not connected
	
		Remembers MixMode setting when power cycled


