Title: Mount for wireless mic on saxophone
Id: 962
Legacy Id: 991

Question:
I have used your Shure 98 Presenter system for my tenor sax for many years and now I've started playing alto sax and I need to purchase some more accessories for it. First of all, can you tell me where I can purchase another bell clamp of some kind? The one I use on the tenor is a coated wire sort of thing that goes completely around the bell of the tenor sax and it has a screw on thing that holds the mic clamp. It wont fit an alto sax. My actual little plastic clip that holds the mic is broken too and I have it taped. What is the latest technology for attaching the mic to a saxophone? I'm sure it's different now, or at least it appears different in some books I've looked at. But nowhere can I find that I can purchase just the instrument clamps and the plastic mic clamp.

I have my own musical instrument business and can buy wholesale from a lot of companies but they don't offer this. I can buy Shure products at wholesale from two of my main suppliers, but they only carry the entire systems and not the individual accessories. Can you help me? I sure hope so. I love the system and would hate to have to stop using it just because I cannot find any new instrument mounts to purchase. Let's assume that I only have the mic with the cable and battery pack and the transmitter with the two antenna's. Where would I go from here to purchase something to clamp this little 98 mic to my saxes, on the bell and I will need to be able to move it fairly easily or unclamp the actual little mic only and just clamp it on the other sax when I start to play it, if there could be a mount that stays on the sax alto and tenor. If you cannot help me, can you please direct me to someone who could? If I had one of these little wire clamps to fit an alto sax that would be find if I could purchase a couple of the little screw on things that has the mic clip/holder on the end of it. I can email you a picture of what I have and what I need if I'm not explaining this too well. Just let me know. Thanks so much in advance for your help.


04/09/2001 02:08 PM -


Thanks for your prompt reply. Where can I purchase A98KCS Universal Horn Clamp? Can you sell directly to me or can you direct me to somewhere to purchase it? I will need two of those.


Answer:

	At 04/09/2001 12:30 PM we wrote - Consider using the Shure A98KCS Universal Horn Clamp.
	
	Later in 2001, Shure will introduce a new horn mic where the clamp is actually part of the mic structure. Look for this product in the late summer or early fall.
	
	At 04/09/2001 02:16 PM we wrote - Call Shure Parts at 800-516-2525. Using a credit card, you can purchase these accessories directly from Shure.

