Title: PGX vs. SLX
Id: 3557
Legacy Id: 3763

Question:
Why should I upgrade from PGX wireless to SLX wireless?


Answer:

	
		
			
				
					PGX
			
			
				
			
				
					SLX
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
					Low Battery Indicator
					LED on transmitter changes from green to red to indicate low battery.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					Battery Meter
					Three segment battery meter shows battery life on transmitter and relays that information to the receiver.
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
		
			
				
			
				
					90 Frequencies
					that tune over 3 TV channels (18MHz) allow for 9 systems total per frequency band.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					960 Frequencies
					that tune over 4 TV channels (24MHz) allow for more compatible systems (up to 12 per frequency band).
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
		
			
				
			
				
					Fixed Antennas
					The PGX4 Receiver has fixed  wave antennas.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					Removable Antennas
					The SLX4 receiver has removable antennas which allow for remote mounting the antennas and antenna combining which improve RF performance.
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
		
			
				
			
				
					MultiFunction LED
					The single LED on the transmitter indicates low battery and microphone mute.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					Transmitter LCD Screen
					SLX transmitters have an LCD Screen to show battery life, group and channel, lock settings and frequency selection.
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
		
			
				
			
				
					Hard Carrying Case
					PGX Wireless ships with a hard plastic carrying case.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					Rack Mounting Included
					SLX Wireless ships with all the rack mounting hardware needed for installs or life on the road in a rack.
			
		
		
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
		
			
				
			
				
					Mic Options
					PGX handheld systems are offered with microphone options like the legendary SM58, supercardioid BETA 58A, or condenser SM86.
			
			
				
			
				
			
				
					Mic Options
					SLX systems are offered with more microphone options like BETA 87A and BETA 87C condenser capsules or WL183 and WL184 lavalieres.
			
		
	


