Title: BG Mics for a Phillipines church
Id: 1407
Legacy Id: 1460

Question:
I'm from the Philippines and would like to avail of your products here in our country. Specifically wired microphones. I'm belong to one of the choirs here in our parish/church and just recently we had our concert. From this concert we were able to raise funds and would like to buy new sets of microphones for the parish. And, researching from your site I found out that the BG series is good for vocal performances, dynamic or with your condenser type. Am I right? My first question is that, would the BG 1.1 be good enough for lectors/commentators/readers during masses? Oor would you recommend the BG 2.1 instead? For the choir, I plan to buy the BG 5.1, condenser type, is that also recommended?


Well, for my last, yet most important question, since I'm on the stage of figuring out what to buy and where to buy it, may I ask HOW DO I RECOGNIZE AN AUTHENTIC SHURE PRODUCT FROM A PIRATED ONE, OR SHOULD I SAY NOT AN ORIGINAL OR A FAKE ONE? Do you have some seal of authenticity I can look for in the mic itself or from the box? Wwhat should these three or four products include (BG 1.1, 2.1, 3.1 and 5.1) if ever I buy them? Does it include a mic casing/bag? wire? Mic holder? Sticker if any? Is Shure products made in Mexico? Because the one I see here is all made in mexico. Because you know here in our country, piracy and non-originals are quite rampant and that's why ask this question so that I wont be tricked in buying the fake one.


Answer:

	1) The BG series is good for vocal performances, dynamic or with your condenser type. Am I right? * You are correct. The BG line is a good, mid-priced line of microphones for your needs.
	
	2) Would the BG 1.1 be good enough for lectors/commentators/readers during masses? or would you recommend the BG 2.1 instead? * The BG 1.1 will be fine. Place the mic within 6 inches of the talkers mouth.
	
	3) For the choir, i plan to buy the BG 5.1, condenser type, is that also recommended? * The BG 4.1 is a better choice for choir.
	
	4) Contact the Shure agent in the Phillipines. He will help you find Shure dealers that only sell authentic Shure products:
	Many of the counterfeit products look very similar to Shure products and only an expert can tell the difference. But the audio performance of counterfeit microphones is very bad.
	
	5) Supplied accessories vary depending on the model. The Shure agent can also help you with this question.
	
	6) Shure BG mics are manufactured in Mexico by Shure employees in Shure factories.
	
	7) Also, please read:

