Title: Is the sound system in my church installed properly and safe to operate?
Id: 3138
Legacy Id: 3273

Question:
I am concerned about the safety of the sound system in my church. There have been many volunteers that have worked on it, and I have doubts about the electrical safety of the system. Any advice?


Answer:

	The National System Contractor Association offers this advice:
	

	
		Find out who did the sound system installation and verify that they used electical code-compliant grounding practices.
	
		Determine if any lay-person moved, added, or changed anything with the system. If yes, verify that all changes meet local electrical code.
	
		Find out who did the electrical work in the building and determine their qualifications, and verify that all work meets local electrical code.
	
		Find out if any lay-person moved, added, or modified any electrical device, appliance, etc. If yes, verify that all changes meet local electrical code.
	
		Compile the results from above. If still in doubt, bring in a qualified expert trained on safety and technical grounding practices.
	
		Have the qualified expert verify that the sound system and other electronic systems have safety grounds in place and no ground lifters in use.
	
		Verify that a qualified electronic systems technician was the last person to work on any electronic devices that are in use.
	
		Verify that a qualified electrician was the last person to do any electrical work in the building and that he did a complete safety grounding test on the electrical outlets in the building. Make sure this test was done with professional quality test equipment and not devices found at local hardware stores.
	
		Make sure your building meet local electrical code and that GFCI (ground fault circuit interrupter) outlets or breakers are in place where required.
	
		Establish a firm policy within your church to hire qualified professionals to perform this type of work. Well-meaning volunteers could unwittingly put lives in danger if they do not thoroughly understand electrical codes and structural codes.


