Title: Audinate Virtual Sound Card Software - how to obtain
Id: 4310
Legacy Id: 5381

Question:
I need to know how to obtain the Dante Virtual Soundcard (DVS) license using the redemption "token" supplied with the SCM820-DAN series of automatic mixers.


Answer:

	Obtaining Audinate's Virtual Sound Card Software
	
	Description:
	The Shure SCM820-DAN and SCM820-DAN-DB25 Digital Automixers feature Dante audio networking to receive and send audio to similarly equipped devices. Included with the product is a "token" (actually a piece of paper with a sticker that has a 25 letter/number code) to obtain a single seat license for the Dante Virtual Soundcard (DVS) software. The Dante Virtual Soundcard software, when installed on a PC or MAC, enables it to connect to a Dante audio network and receive audio via its Ethernet port. A common application for the DVS software is to provide the ability to record network audio on a computer using various multi-channel recording programs.
	
	Procedure:


	
	Go to audinate.com
	
	Using mouse cursor, select "PRODUCTS" tab
	
	Using mouse cursor, select "Dante Virtual Soundcard" in the dropdown menu
	
	Click on "Register Hardware"
	
	Login to the website.  If previously not registered, create a personal user account
	
	After logging in, click on "Redeem DVS Token" button
	
	Enter the DVS 25 character token supplied on the card supplied with the SCM820-DAN auto-mixer
	
	Receive Dante Virtual Sound Card software license key.  Use this key to activate the software after downloading it from the Audinate website.


	
	Text from the Dante Virtual Sound Card token document supplied with the SCM820-DAN (June 2013):
	
	Description
	
	The Shure SCM820-DAN and SCM820-DAN-DB25 automatic mixers and the A820-NIC-Dante network card include a free license for Dante Virtual Sound (DVS) card by Audinate.  DVS software turns a computer into a Dante enabled device, allowing digital audio traffic to be transmitted and received using the computer's standard Ethernet port.
	
	Redeem the DVS License
	
	Use the DVA Token (located in the box to the right) to obtain a single computer License ID for DVS from Audinate's website. Without a License ID, the DVS software will not work.
	
	Support and Documentation
	
	Shure (www.shure.com): For product information, user guides, technical specifications, and software downloads.
	
	Audinate (www.audinate.com): For redeeming the DVS License ID, system requirements, and Dante support information.
	
	Shure document 27A20601 (2012)

