Title: KSM313 for electric guitar amplifier
Id: 3728
Legacy Id: 3962

Question:
Would the KSM313 work well on a guitar amp?


Answer:

	The KSM313 has been used for miking a guitar amp.   Here is a field report for renown sound engineer David Morgan:The Troubadour Reunion tour paired singer-songwriters James Taylor and Carole King. The artists asked for a warm, intimate sound, despite working on a large stage and an in-the-round setting.Morgan states, "It's been very challenging from an engineering perspective. James and Carole are playing afternoon sound check shows for charity, so there's no time for experimenting when audio problems arise." That was exactly the case in Morgan's attempts to capture the guitar sound of Taylor's guitarist Danny Kortchmar.Playing through a pair of Fender Deluxe reproduction amps with 12-inch speakers, Kortchmar had originally planned to elevate his rig on stands. But because that set-up was deemed an obstruction to the audience's line of sight, the guitarist had to place the amps on the floor. Even with the amps rocked back, the direct speaker sound was hitting Kortchmar in the knees, not the ears."To get the articulation he needs to hear, Danny had to change his tone, which actually thinned his sound," Morgan explains.  "To Danny, the amps sound normal, but the new setup sounded a bit harsh in the microphones. I had been using Shure KSM27s on the amps, and that's a good, fat-sounding microphone.  But suddenly I found myself using a lot of EQ, trying to get that signature sound Danny is known for. It was problematic, especially with the lack of free time to explore other options."The solution turned out to be: the Shure KSM313 ribbon microphone. "I needed a warm, fat sound with a lot of articulation, so a ribbon mic was one obvious option. I had heard good things about the KSM313, but I had never so much as talked into one, so it was kind of an unknown," Morgan relates. "But as soon as they came out of the box and went onstage, the sound I needed was there. I put them up in the Chicago show and they've been there ever since."Morgan deploys one KSM313 on each of Kortchmar's two cabinets, using the front side of the mic and positioning them as close to the grille as possible to take advantage of their mild proximity effect. Doing that required approaching the tilted-back cabinets from above, with the KSM313 XLR pointing upward."It worked instantly," Morgan reports. "I'm using very little EQ, just one or two dB here and there, whereas before I had cuts of 6 dB or more at 2.5k and 7k. With the KSM313, I can now just pretty much put them up and let him play. Now Danny is happy with what he's hearing, and the fans are getting the sound they want and expect. It's an elegant solution to what had been an ongoing problem in a difficult situation. The KSM313 sounds great on guitars and I can't wait to try it in other applications, especially acoustic instruments like the saxophone and trumpet. I'm really looking forward to experimenting with this mic."
	
