Title: Differences between the Shure SCL Series and SE models (SE110, SE210, SE310, SE420 and SE530)?
Id: 3310
Legacy Id: 3479

Question:
What are the differences between the ShureSCL Series and SE models (SE110, SE210, SE310, SE420 and SE530)?


Answer:

	The Shure consumer SE Sound Isolating Earphones (SE110, SE210, SE310, SE420 and SE530) build off the success of the companys acclaimed SCL Series line but offer a number of unique attributes including new sound, modularity, style and ergonomics. These featureslean the SE line towards an easier and more applicable product for consumers instead of musicians on stage.

	

	Please note the E series line has been renamed and rebranded into the SCL line. The SCL series (Shure Classic Line) feature the same sound and technology as the previous E series offerings,in newer packaging, more color options, and more sleeve offerings including the new black foam sleeves(Except on the SCL2). Currently the SCL series will be found in musicians industry channel stores and online retailers. For SCL earphones visit our Where to Buy page.

	

	The differences between the SCL line and SE line are:

	
		Sound signatures: The new line of earphones utilizes the same award-winning in-ear technology as the SCL3, SCL4 and SCL5, with their own unique sound signatures and new speakers. Shure earphones offer increasing range and detail as you move up the line.
		
	
		Modularity: The new modular design allows for the use of variable cable lengths, as well as functionality that can be added inline, such as the Push-To-Hear (PTH) accessory and Music Phone Adapter (compatible with the Apple iPhone). All of the SCL series feature a fixed cable length.
		
	
		The SE models offer a secure, lightweight, comfortable fit with improved material for easier insertion into the ear and durability. With rubberized back half for a better grip, smoother edges, and newer sleeve options (3 new sizes of black foam sleeves), quickly obtaining a seal in the ear is now easier and more comfortable then before.


	Please note that the E500PTH was renamed the SE530PTH. For specific differences between the E500PTH and SE530PTH please click here

