Title: Can I parallel microphones into one input of my mixer?
Id: 179
Legacy Id: 180

Question:
I'm creating a paging system and want to parallel wire multiple microphones into a single channel of my mixer. Is that ok?


Answer:

	Wiring Microphones in Parallel

	
		Connecting microphones in parallel allows more than one microphone to be connected to the same microphone input of a mixer. This reduces the cost and complexity of the sound system, since fewer mixers and microphone-to-mixer cables are required. There are tradeoffs, however:
		
			
				It is not possible to adjust the level of one individual microphone. Therefore, individual soft or loud talkers cannot be accommodated.
			
				Only dynamic microphones may be used. Condenser microphones requiring phantom power cannot be connected in parallel, because their cumulative current draw would exceed the capacity of most mixer inputs.
			
				In Push-to-Talk applications, the switches on the microphones must be of the Normally Open type. If any microphone uses a Normally Closed switch, it will short out all of the microphones that are connected together and none of the mics will operate.
			
				If two or more mics are activated at the same time, the output level of each mic will be less than if only one mic is activated.
		
	
	
		The connection from each microphone to the audio cable leading to the mixer should be made inside of a shielded enclosure to prevent pickup of hum and interference. Passive 2-into-1 microphone combiners can be used, and provide transformer isolation between microphones.
	
		The end of the cable that is farthest from the mixer input must be terminated with a resistor. The resistor produces no audio signal, but emulates the load presented by a microphone. This reduces pickup of hum and radio or electromagnetic interference when no mics are activated.
	
		Again, make certain the microphonesto be usedhave Normally Open switches for the mic circuit; some models have Normally Closed but can be modified to be Normally Open.


	

