Title: Sending Earphones for repair
Id: 3168
Legacy Id: 3306

Question:
How do I send in my Shure Earphones for repair?


Answer:

	Repair of Earphones is handled at the following locations:


	
		
			
				
					ASIA-PACIFIC
			
		
		
			
				Shure Asia Ltd., Hong Kong
				Customer Service
				+852 2893 0411
				Email Form
		
		
			
				
					EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA
			
		
		
			
				Shure Europe GmbH
				Service Department
				Jakob-Dieffenbacher-Str. 12
				75031 Eppingen
				Germany
				+49 (0) 7262-9249-107
				info@shure.de
		
		
			
				
					UNITED KINGDOM
			
		
		
			
				
					Shure Distribution UK
					Unit 2, IO Centre
					Lea Road
					Waltham Abbey
					EN9 1AS
					United Kingdom
					+44 (0) 1992-703-058
					email form
			
		
		
			
				
					UNITED STATES
			
		
		
			
				Warranty Information
				Repair Information
				Repair Form
				
				Send the earphones to the address on the above repair form.
		
		
			
				
					ALL OTHER COUNTRIES
			
		
		
			
				Contact the Shure Agent in your country by using these links: Western Hemisphere; Europe, Middle East, Africa; Asia Pacific.
		
	



	Common questions about returning earphones:

	
		Is an emailed receipt sufficient to show the earphones are within warranty? Yes.
	
		If my earphones are under warranty, do I need to fill in the payment information on the repair correspondence form? No.
	
		Do I need to include the packaging and accessories? No. Do not return packaging and/or accessories with your earphones. Removethe sleevesand do not send the sleeves with yourearphones.
	
		Should I use UPS, FedEx or the U.S. Post Office to send in my earphones? You can use either service, but we recommend using a shipping method that requires a signature at delivery. This is the only proof you will have of delivery.
	
		How should I pack the earphones? Use a padded envelope or box. Do NOT use a plain paper envelope which may tear during shipping and handling.
	
		Does Shure pay for the shipping? You will need to pay for shipping to Shure. Shure will pay for shipping back to you.
	
		How long does it take to get my earphones repaired? Up to 15 business days, not including shipping times.
	
		Does Shure offer an upgrade or exchange program? No.
	
		How do I make certain Shure received my earphones? Ship the earphones using a method that requires a signature on delivery.
	
		How can I check the status of my repair? Allow at least 15 business days before contacting Shure. Then, contact Shure using the information in the above table.
	
		Are my earphones under warranty? Warranty Information.
	
		Do I need to contact Shure before sending in my earphones? In the U.S., no. Simply fill out the repair form and send the earphones in. Outside the U.S., use the contacts in the above table.
	
		If I live outside the U.S., can I send my earphones to the U.S. for repair? For fastest service, use the above table to contact the Shure facility nearest your location.


